<!--{type:code centered}-->
<!--{title:Node Class-->

## Let's Define the `Node` Class:
```Python
class Node:
    def __init__(self, key):
        self.key = key
        self.children = []
    
    def insert_child(self, newChild):
        self.children.append(newChild)
```

The `Node` class contains the data value of a node and a list of its children.

`insert_child` function appends the node passed as an argument to the current node's list of children. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[for speaker]: <> (-Now that we understand the structure of a tree and the common terminology used to describe elements of a tree, let's think of how we would implement the structure in Python.)

[for speaker]: <> (It may be tempting to declare a class called `Tree` in which we store all the nodes in the class. While this approach makes sense, it can often lead to confusion and does not have built-in functionality for relationships between the nodes in the tree. When you realize that a class for the tree itself is not necessary, you may think of a second approach, which is the standard implementation. Instead,...)

[for speaker]: <> (for this implementation, we will declare a class `Node` in which in each instance of the class represents a node of the tree.  The `Node` class contains the data value of a node and a list of its children. This implementation also includes an `insert_child` function that simply appends the node passed as an argument to the current node's list of children. Since each node has its children stored in it, the structure of the tree is maintained, making the `Tree` class unnecessary. You may be asking why we don't keep track of each node's parent. While this may be useful or necessary for some more advanced types of trees, it is not needed to implement a base tree that we're currently investigating.)

