## Part II: The JS File

At this point, `main.js` looks something like this:

```js
var config = {
  apiKey: 'AIxaSyGsAkHke9lXEU_97a8rYpMn7gOH3eWDxrM',
  authDomain: 'collaborative-sketch.firebaseapp.com',
  databaseURL: 'https://collaborative-sketch.firebaseio.com',
  storageBucket: 'collaborative-sketch.appspot.com'
}
firebase.initializeApp(config)

var pointsData = firebase.database().ref()
```

Let's quickly walk through what a part of this code does. For example:

```js
var config = {
  // stuff hidden here for simplicity
}
```

This section of code creates a new `object` in JavaScript named `config`.

**What is a JavaScript Object?**

Take the object closest to you right now, for most of you that might be a cell phone. A cell phone can have a lot of characteristics, or _properties_. One could be a screen.

How would you describe a screen to someone who hasn't seen it before? You can tell them how big that screen is. JavaScript objects are bundles of information stored in this way: a property and a value. What would a JavaScript object of our phone look like?

```js
var phone = {
  screenSize: '5.5 inches'
}
```

See how similar it looks to the `config` object we have in our `main.js`? The `apiKey` is a unique property to _your_ `config` object that lets Firebase know who is accessing your app's database.

```js
var config = {
  apiKey: 'AIxaSyGsAkHke9lXEU_97a8rYpMn7gOH3eWDxrM'
  // ...other stuff
}
```

The first thing we've added to the object is a `property` named `apiKey`, which we assigned a jumbled value of text to. To access this value, we can write:

```js
config.apiKey
```

The `.` is a special character that allows us to look inside of an `object`. This can be used as a shortcut to replacing code, so writing `config.apiKey` is many times equivalent to writing the full jumbled text `"AIxaSyGsAkHke9lXEU_97a8rYpMn7gOH3eWDxrM"`.

In the same manner, `config.authDomain` would look inside to the `object` for the value of `authDomain` and become "replaced" by `"collab-draw.firebaseapp.com"`.

Can anybody guess what this line replaces?

```js
config.databaseURL
```

