**Type:** _link+code_

**Title:** _Space Complexity_

_insert slide content here_

Similar to time complexity, as functions' input grows very large, they will take up an increasing amount of memory; this is **space complexity**. In fact, these functions' memory usage also grows in a similar fashion to time complexity and we describe the growth in the same way. We describe it as *linear*, *quadratic*, etc. time. 

``` python
value = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

def valueSum(value):
	sum = 0							#c1
	for i in value:			#c3*n
    	sum = sum + i
    return sum				#c2
```

To describe the amount of memory this function will require, we will write an expression similar to what was done for *time complexity*. We will call our expression: *Space(Input)* as space is a function of the input. 

Our Space(Input) equation should look like:

$$
Space(Input) = c1 + c2 + c3*n
$$
Our equation represented by the dominant (fastest growing) term would simply be **c3 * n**. 

**Lets look at another familiar function, `listInList`**

```python
keypad = [[1, 2, 3], 
          [4, 5, 6],
          [7, 8, 9],
          [0]] 

def listInList(keypad):
    sum = 0
    for row in keypad:
        for i in row:
            sum += i
    return sum
```

We work with two numbers, `i` and `sum`. These require **c1** and **c2** amount of memory. 

Each element in `keypad` will require **c3** amount of memory. We can conclude that the array `keypad` requires **c1 * n^2** amount of memory. 

The Space(Input) equation for `keypad` looks something like this. 

$$
Space(Input) = c1 + c2 + c3*n^2
$$
Our equation represented by the dominant term would be **c3 * n^2** 

**Note:**Prioritize optimizing function run time over optimize memory 

---

Let's try and find the Space(Input) equation for this function. To start, let's break down the function line by line. We are working with integers `sum` and `i`, with space values **c1** and **c2** respectively. We have a complex data structure, `value = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`, so we know that the amount of memory is **c3 * n** where *n* is the length of the range, `valueSum`. 

Similar to time complexity, the amount of memory `keypad` will need is **c1 * n * n**. In other words, **c1 * n^2** Primitive values such as integers, floats, strings, etc. will always take up a constant amount of memory. Complex data structures such as `arrays` take up `k * c` amount of memory where *c* is an amount of memory and *k* is the number of elements in the array. Going back to our `valueSum` function...

## Optimize Time or Optimize Memory?

The greater the input of a function, the greater amount of time and memory that the function will require to operate. A common question is **"Is it better to have our function run faster, but require more space; or should we have our function require less space, but run slower?"**

We can either have our function run faster, but require more memory or our function run slower, but require less memory.

The general answer is to have our function run faster. It is always possible to buy more space/memory. It's impossible to buy extra time. Hence, the general rule is to **prioritize** having our function/algorithm run faster.

